so we're gonna teach you hand switching
and what we mean by that is from doing a
regular four beat we've both of our
right hands are doing the weave and when
I shift hands I'm gonna match that same
pattern with her hand but I'm gonna put
my left hand in instead she keeps doing
the same weave and I have to compensate
with my hand and now I can shift back
this is the most common way to do the
four beat right hand to right hand or
left hand to left hand so we reached an
interesting challenge when we try and do
it left hand to right hand or right hand
to left hand because you end up having
to do an extra little something with
your wrist which you'll find out by
trying it with your partner if we were
doing her left hand in my right hand
then we want to do a four beat we've
notice that she her wrist actually has a
funny little tuck right here it's
helpful to practice these weaves staying
on the bottom from side to side and then
communicate with your partner to go up
and you can practice staying on the top
now these will feel a little funny the
first time you try them but it opens up
a lot of possibility and versatility in
your partner boy weaving so in these
well as we stay on the top notice that
zan is the one that's initiating to go
to the other side so I am staying in the
back until he initiates and staying in
the front until he initiate
here in the four-beat notice that the
connection point of our arms is making a
circle between us right now from my
perspective that's going
counterclockwise and from Aurora's
perspective it's going clockwise so with
hand switching you have to remember that
that circle will always keep going in
the same direction if I want to put my
left hand in my circle is still going to
be going counterclockwise that way
Aurora won't get confused she can keep
leaving the same way and I've stuck my
other hand in as long as I keep that
circle in the same direction I can shift
in the pattern whenever I want to some
combinations of arms are more
challenging than others but as long as
we stay attentive to maintaining that
pattern and rhythm it doesn't matter
which arm is weaving it's the same basic
four beat pattern
and by communicating with your partner
you can also decide to shift the
direction of the circle going around so
let's go from this direction now
switching so we come back the other way
and for me that's gone from
counterclockwise to clockwise and again
I can just maintain the pattern
switching my arms in the four-beat
whenever I choose so not only can we
shift the way our hands are going by
communicating now we'll also show you a
way to shift the way the direction our
poi are going by using a stall so you
need to set up a means of communication
with your partner whether it's four
three two one go five six seven eight
works with musical counting or even
there next and then do it whatever works
with your partner agree so let's count
five six seven eight and then go on the
downbeat of one okay and we're going to
be doing the weave and then stalling to
shift the direction of our poi then
continuing the circle in the same
direction so let's start the four beat
leaf five six seven eight
stall and continue in the same direction
now I want to do two stalls in the front
and next time we get there stall stall
hey and now we're playing isn't that
great so as soon as I know what the
intention is or what sands wanting us to
do I can find a way to play with that
pattern you just have to have one
established pattern then you can start
elaborating from there so with these
techniques we've shown you you can start
to play with your partner make sure
you're on the same page and
communicating but as long as the pattern
isn't changing you can shift your arms
whenever you like and then use some
other communication cues like stay on
the bottom and here we can just weave
back and forth on the bottom and keep
circling and I would like to stall here
staying with a circle that's Donegan in
the same place
so play around with all the ways you can
think of to switch with your partner and
work in turns - I have always been on
the right side and she's been on the
left but play with hand switching and
then turn your bodies switch and do the
weave some more and keep that movement
going with your legs and your footwork
as well to keep the flow of your play
dynamic that's what we call hand
switching with the weave thanks for
watching we hope to see you at a class
we teach in person it's a lot of fun to
play together
you